This is Terry Anderson, and we are testing the 4th
of May, 1982. Testing,
testing, today's date is May 4th, 1983. We are
trying to find out if we need a microphone.
Okay, okay. that that higher ranking guy at the
appropriate time will step forward when they're
ready to fill a position that says, I've got the man
that needs to go in that position. In other words,
he's in a position to act as your ombudsman. He
maneuvers you into positions where you can accept
more responsibility and thus stand a better
chance of being promoted. I think from that
standpoint that it would be human nature for a West
Point graduate or an Air Force Academy graduate by
his associations with people from that same
institution would be more likely to latch on to one
of those bright and shining young guys to maneuver
him than it would be somebody from some other
place. By the same token, I think the same would be
true for Texas A&M. I know a lot of pretty
high-ranking guys. General Wayman Nutt, who's a
two-star over at San Antonio right now, met him at a
meeting not long ago. We weren't together three
minutes before we had already found out several
people we knew of each other. Almost instant
rapport established because of our commonality
of our background. And so when the time comes, he's
going to be looking at people like that, people
that he knows, to plug in where they need to be
plugged in. So yes, it's an advantage from that
standpoint.
through the association and his knowing your
background, then he'd be in a position to push you
when the time comes. What class is he? Wayman is, I
believe he's the class of 49.
How do you spell his last name? N-U-T-T, Wayman
Nutt. He's the commander of the San Antonio Air
Logistics Center. Got about 23,000 people
working for him over there. He's a two-star. Heck
of a knife. And he's still on active? Still on
active duty. That's why I haven't heard
of him. When you compare the officers from the
Academy versus the officers from A&M, would you
say one is better or less prepared or better
prepared? Once again, I really haven't had that
much contact with the Academy graduates. Most of
them, of course, are in the Army, and I've always
been in the Air Force. Yeah, but I mean even ever
since they built the Air Force Academy. Yeah. I
would say they're comparable. I really would. I
think they're pretty well comparable. They've
got a lot in common.
So I really wouldn't think that...
I would think by the very nature that your graduate
of the service academy, whichever service it may
be, Annapolis, West Point, Air Force, is going to
have to give you some, just a little bit of an edge on
someone that did not go there. And I think we all
accept that. But that's not to say that you can't
overcome that through other actions. OK, now
during the interview, we've talked about people
who've had some impact on your life. And I was
wondering if any, while you were at A&M taking
classes and in the Corps, if there were any of the
professional soldiers here who had an impact on
you, or any of the professors? Yes. There was a guy
that was the assistant commandant at the time. I
was a sophomore here, the name of Taylor Wilkins.
At the height of the Korean War, I was doing very
poorly academically. I was on probation and very
near getting kicked out of A&M for scholastic
problems. I was spending all my time in the Corps
activity. We didn't do anything that I wasn't
there because I loved it. As a result, I neglected
my schoolwork. This was after I changed my major
from petroleum engineering to business. And I
really liked what I was doing. It's just that I
didn't have enough time to do it all. And the Corps
came first with me.
mother and dad were concerned that with the Korean
War in full flower, that I was going to flunk out and
that I was going to get drafted in the Air Force,
that they wanted me to be in the Air Force. So they
came down and we all had talked and apparently an
Air Force recruiter had gotten a hold of them and
said, you know, if you can get him on in here now, we
can put him in the Air Force and he can be an enlisted
guy in the Air Force. And so That made sense to me
because I knew I was just really having a rough time
staying in school. So we went to see Taylor
Wilkins. And he sat down and talked with my father,
my mother, and myself for two hours, I guess, and
just flat talked us out of the whole thing. He said,
look, you can do it. He gave me a lot of positive
thinking kind of thing. Don't think you're going
to flunk out. Think you're going to stay and do what
it takes to make it. And that was kind of a turning
point for me. So I went ahead and stayed in A&M. And
sure enough, I did make my probation. And I was able
to stay in and eventually graduate. But we were
within minutes of me resigning from A&M and
joining the Air Force as an enlisted guy. And
Wilkins, Taylor Wilkins, had the insight to see
that that was going to be a mistake, that I could
make it. I had the potential to make it if I just
worked at it. And he told me, you know. So you get
some demerits and have to walk the bullring. Don't
spend so much time on your shoes. Don't spend so
much time on your brass. Start spending more time
studying. And I did. And it paid off. So I would have
to say that I wouldn't be here right now if it
weren't for Taylor Wilkins. What happened to him?
He later left and went to Allen Academy, which is a
local military academy in town, as their
commandant. And then he died. I think he had a heart
attack or something. I don't know just why. I was
never real close to Colonel Wilkins other than the
fact that I knew who he was, and he took enough
interest in me to spend that couple hours with me
and my mother and father to tell us what he thought.
And we listened to him. That's one time we listened
to a guy that was right, and we were wrong. How about
professors here? Oh, my.
I remember the hardest course I ever had was
statistics, and we had a guy by the name of Miles
Hamilton. Everybody had nicknames then, and I
guess they still do. But Dr. Hamilton was my
statistics professor.
There's a professor here that had a great deal of
impact on me, gave me a lot of inspiration. He's
still here, by the way. He's a salesmanship or
marketing professor named Herb Thompson in the
College of Business Administration. Herb's
always been a good friend of mine, and he gave me a
lot of encouragement. I made some good grades
under him. There was a gentleman that doesn't
teach here anymore, but he was a business law
professor, and he's still a practicing attorney
here in town named Phil Goode. Phil was a Great
inspiration. He always liked me, and I liked him,
and he gave me a lot of encouragement. I did well in
some of his classes. By the time you were about a
junior then, were you picking your grades up?
Yeah, right. My sophomore year was my bad year.
Keep in mind that when I changed my major, I changed
it at the middle of my freshman year, and I had a
whole bunch of F's. bad, bad Fs. And I had all that to
overcome. So my sophomore year was kind of the year
that I turned around. And then my junior and senior
year, I picked up and did pretty well. What was the
feeling among the student body toward the war in
Korea? I mean, did a lot of them decide, let's quit
going to college and go over there and fight? Did
they think it would be better for them to stay here
and become officers? That was the general
opinion. Most of us felt that it was something that
might go on for a while and that we could best serve
our country and ourselves by staying in school,
getting a commission, and then going. As it worked
out, when I graduated, I had a set of orders for
Yokohama, Japan. I was reported to Yokohama and
then for further assignment into the Korean area.
But almost exactly the same thing happened with me
as happened with my father. I'd already received
my orders to report to the port of embarkation, and
the war ended. And so I've never served one day
overseas. After all these years, I've never
served one day of overseas assignments. You can
see it's all been stateside. And so I've got mixed
emotions about that. Nobody wants to be in a
conflict, or no one wants to be in combat. But I kind
of feel, you know, I almost have guilt feelings
that here I'm a brigadier general, and I've never
seen any combat. I guess it's dumb to say I feel
guilty about that, but when I think of the prices
that some other generals have paid, I really feel
like I hadn't really earned it. But apparently
someone thinks I have, or I wouldn't be there. That
is very interesting. Now, when you were about
ready to graduate, When did you make up your mind
that you wanted to go into the military? Or was the
military going to help you by taking you anyway? I
didn't have any choice. There was no choice to be
made. At that time, I had two years active duty and
six years in reserves as an obligation to my
accepting the contract. That was a two-year
contract. I spent two years on active duty. I
married... my wife between my junior and senior
year in August before my senior year. So I was
married my senior year. And then did you move to a
married dormitory? We moved into an off-campus
apartment, which is still here, just over on the
south side on Montclair Street. And so my wife and
I, of course, were in the service together. We
liked it pretty well. At the end of the two years
active duty hitch, we just decided that we didn't
want to make a career out of it. And so I was on a
military leave from Sears Roebuck. I went to work
for Sears Roebuck right after I graduated and
worked for them for a short time and then went on
active duty for two years. And so I had returned
privileges with Sears. And so I went back to work
for Sears and worked for them for a number of years.
But this must have had a pretty big impact on you
going into the active duty when you had thought
about the military for many years. You'd loved the
Corps. You'd liked the regimentation. And you
liked all the military aspects of the Corps. Were
you let down when you really got to the real thing,
the US military? Or is let down too strong?
Disillusioned in some way? I can't really,
neither of those words fit. I was surprised, I
think might be a better word. It was more like a
day's work. It was kind of a business. People
worked eight to five a month through Friday and
they went home. And that just wasn't really the way
I'd envisioned it. But it was such a much more
relaxed pace than I was used to. I was used to spit
and polish at a certain time, a certain time. When I
got on active duty, everybody was kind of laid
back. And we had a job to do, and we did it. My active
duty outfit was with an air evacuation outfit. It
was a hospital-type airplane where we evacuated
and moved sick patients from one part of the
country to another. And I was a supply officer. was
not able to go to flying school because of my
eyesight. It's always been poor. And at those
times, you had to have a 20-20 vision before they
would let you go to pilot school. And so I've never
flown an airplane. I couldn't fly one now if I had
to. I've never been to pilot training. But anyway,
I was a supply officer for this air evacuation
outfit and really enjoyed it. a two-year hitch.
Part of that time I was at Lackland in processing
and getting in, and part of the time after that I
went to Cheyenne, Wyoming to supply school, which
was a six-week school, as I recall. So I really
wasn't on active duty at the station at Mobile,
Alabama, Brooke Air Force Base, which has since
been decommissioned. The base is no longer there,
but it was a big air material area center at that
time. They now call them air logistics centers. At
that time, they called them AMLAs, Air Material
Areas. And Mobile Air Material Area was where I was
stationed at Brookie Air Force Base Mobile. But it
was quite a change from what I, it wasn't anything
at all like I expected. Well, I don't, again, don't
want to put words in your mouth, but it sounds like
you were maybe a little bit too energetic and
driving for the peacetime Air Force. Is that true?
Not really 100%. What would you explain? There was
enough challenge there, but I was bored at times.
There was not enough to keep me busy all day every
day. I'd find myself going to the gym and shooting
goals because all my work would be done by coffee
break in the morning.
I was a little bit, I've always been the type that I
like to be behind all the time. I like to always have
something that's waiting for me that needs to be
done. And of course in the job I have now, that's no
problem. But I was really kind of bored in the Air
Force. I really was. And I know that's a problem we
have today in the Air Force. A lot of people are in
jobs that they just don't have enough to do. And so I
try to remedy that any time I find it. But I think
that had probably a lot to do with my deciding to get
off active duty. What about your wife? What was her
feelings? She just never was really as gung-ho
military as I was. She was raised in the oil field.
Her father was an oil field worker. and uh west
texas or east uh mostly south america venezuela
primarily and so she had spent a lot of her time in a
of course a south american oil camp is somewhat
like a military camp in that you've got perimeter
fence bob wire on top guard on the gate uh you've got
a camp boss that's kind of like a base commander
yeah and a lot of regimentation and so she she just
uh never did really go that crazy about the
military And so I think we were both pretty well
ready to get off active duty. Of course, I had to
stay in the reserve six years because that was part
of my obligation. But by the end of that six years, I
was really hooked on the reserve program. I've
always felt that it was a worthwhile program, the
citizen-soldier type approach. The war in this
country have always been fought by the masses of
people that are grocerymen and service station
people and plumbers and carpenters. It's never
been ready. fought by career people. That's just
the nucleus. Of course, the problem we're faced
with now, the next war we have is going to become a UR
war. We're not going to have time to train the
bakers and grocerymen and so forth. And so I think
we're in a more dangerous environment today than
we've ever been. Because of the time that's left?
Because of that, and plus because of the very short
time frame that all of our war plans call for. We're
looking at three-day wars, seven-day wars. If
it's a long war, it might last 30 days. Whereas
before, we're talking about years and years and
years. We'll never see those kinds of wars again.
Because of technology. Yes. Now, I'm not saying
that we can't have an El Salvador or something like
that that could draw on for years. That's not what
I'm talking about. I'm talking about an all-out
war. where the entire resources of this nation are
thrown into it. We'll never have a war like that
that will last very long because of the nature of
the conflict. It'll be over very quickly. And
nobody will win, of course. Well, after two years
out of active duty, you decided to return to
reserve status. Tell me about the reserves in the
mid-1950s, and why did you become so hooked on them
after your six-year obligation? I think probably
a lot of the same reasons that I enjoyed the Corps so
much. It was a group of guys, got to be real close to
them. A lot of them are still around town here. We
had what we felt to be an important job, that is to be
ready to be called in case we were needed, with next
to zero money and next to zero equipment to train
and operate with. It was kind of a challenge,
really. It's kind of like the old boy's got camping
trips. He used to go and live off the land. Then, of
course, I've been in the Air Force Reserve Program
long enough to watch it go from the days where you
watch the Air Force story on film over and over down
in the basement of the post office building with
zero equipment up to the point now that we're
getting F-16s off the assembly line. It has just
been marvelous to watch the growth of the Reserve
Program. And we're really a viable force now.
Whereas before, all we could be would be fillers
for active duty units. Now, the Air Force Reserve
really is split into two different areas. One is
what we call the unit program, which means that we
have numbered flag-carrying units that can go to
war as a unit. military airlift wings, fighter
wings, and so forth, F-16s. We've got A-10s and all
kinds of different planes and units that can go to
war and function as a unit independently of
everybody else if we had to. Then we have the other
portion, which is the portion that I'm involved
with now. I've always been in the unit program up
until just a short time ago, but we have what we call
the Individual Mobilization Assistance, IMAs.
We are fillers for active duty units. We train with
the active duty units. In the event of
mobilization, we know exactly where we go,
exactly who we'll be working with, even where our
desk is. I've got a desk right now with all my junk in
it at Tinker Air Force Base, Oklahoma City. So if I
was called active duty, if I were called active
duty, I could be there in less than 24 hours. We have
to be there in less than 24 hours. And so I keep my bag
packed all the time, ready to be packed. And I'll be
leaving at 4 o'clock tomorrow afternoon to go up
for three days. My boss is a two-star general. Just
got promoted to three, by the way. I'm losing him.
He's going to be commander of 15th Air Force at Mars
Air Force Base at Riverside, California. So I'll
be breaking in a new boss. What is his job now? He's
the commander of Oklahoma City Air Logistics
Center. I mentioned Wayman Nutt at San Antonio,
Commander of San Antonio Air Logistics Center.
Well, this is another air logistics center. We
have one at Sacramento, California, one at San
Antonio, one at Oklahoma City, one at Robbins Air
Force Base, Georgia, and then the headquarters
for Air Force Logistics Command at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base at Dayton, Ohio.
So there are five logistics centers, air
logistics centers, and he's the commander of one
of them. and that's a two-star slot. So now he's
getting his own Air Force. He's getting his own
numbered Air Force, 15th Air Force at March Air
Force Base, and his third star. He gets them both on
the 1st of September. See, I was mentioning to you
that you had to have a sponsor. He's already making
overtures that when his two-star logistics
officer slot opens up that he wants me to come out
and take that. So in other words, it's people you
meet that you do a good job for, and then when the
time comes, and he needs a reservist, well, then
he'll think of me. So in other words, that's the
way. But that would be a reserve position. It would
be a reserve position. And it's to augment the
activity force. Basically, the concept is that
they're on a two-shift operation now. They have a
morning shift and a swing shift. Well, in the event
of mobility, then they'd add the third shift, the
graveyard shift, and then that would be the one
that I would take. I would be the actual commander
during an eight-hour portion of the day for that
air logistics center. And we have 22,000
civilians, and we have responsibilities for,
well, the new B-1 bombers, all the maintenance on
the new B-1, on the B-52, on the KC-135, on the A-10,
on the A-7, plus about half the engines in the Air
Force. We have maintenance responsibility for
those, plus supply responsibilities for a whole
bunch of things. And so then I would be beefing that
command operation up. But I'm part of the command
section. Wherever the commander goes, I go. When I
go, I get my staff car with the star on the bumper,
and my office is right next to his. And I'm part of
the real Air Force for the three days that I'm up
there this week. That's fantastic. And it's just
like being on active duty. And what did this
program, these two different programs, IMA and
the unit program, when did they develop? I would
say the unit program has been around for a long
time. I would say the unit program probably is 15
years old or so. So during the Vietnamese? Yes. I
would say the IMA program probably is seven or
eight years old. Basically what it amounted to is a
lot of people
Normally the unit program doesn't have very much
rank in it because, you know, you take a wing
commander as a brigadier general. A group
commander usually is a full colonel. Well, after
you get up to that point, you're still young,
you've got a lot of time to go, but if you get
promoted, say, from lieutenant colonel to a
colonel, and there's not a group open, you know,
you get promoted out of a job is what it amounts to.
So they started looking around. With all this
talent, all these years of experience, we don't
want that guy to walk out the door. What kind of a
program can we put together so the Air Force can
utilize his talents, his past training, and his
experience, and what have you, without losing
that resource? So they came up with the Individual
Mobilization Program, which enables him to mesh
in with an existing active duty outfit and just
augment that unit. I think all branches of the
service have the program now. Oh, and was the Air
Force the first to develop it? That I don't know. I
don't know who pirated the concept. I just don't
know who originated it, really. But it seems to be
working very well. Fantastic.
So I would say at Oklahoma City, and of course, I'm
the ranking reservist there as a brigadier, we
have about seven full colonels. And with all the
ranks combined, we have close to 300 reserves
assigned to that air logistics center. 300?
Mm-hmm. And that includes enlisted ranks also. So
in other words, if the whistle blows, that
organization will have to really get into high
gear, start turning out planes. much more quickly
than it has been in the past. So we've got a ready
trained pool of people to put in there. And we've
got people right down the line twisting wrenches.
You can go in there and you won't know which is
reserves and which is active duty. Just like on
active duty when you can't tell. That's right. So
it's an exciting time to be in a reserve program.
Well, let's go back to the 1950s. And let's talk a
little bit about those six years. What time is it?
I've got 4.15, and I'm going to need to wind up by
4.30, because I've got to get a haircut before the
barbershop closes. We can stop right now. Today's
June 14th. This is the second interview with
General Cargill. I was interested in, I noticed on
your resume that you spent about 10 years from 57 to
67 with one or two exceptions as a supply officer
for the reserves. And I was wondering about any
particular problems you might have had in the
supply field with procuring certain types of
goods. Were there shortages in certain goods?
Could you talk about that? I would say that
Historically, we had the same problems during
that time period that we have today, and that is
shortage of funds with which to buy the things. The
goods and the products and the parts and what have
you have always been there if you had the money to
buy them. Now, there's long lead times,
especially on aircraft parts and especially on
aircraft that are getting old where let's say that
they're not making the aircraft anymore, but
still they have a parts obligation. They won't
tool up and make eight or ten parts. If they tool up,
they're going to make a thousand at one time.
Really, when you're talking about supply, you're
talking about basically two types of supplies.
You're talking about maintenance or
housekeeping or personal type supplies like
field jackets and cold weather gear and and office
supplies and things like that. The other type we
refer to as a category is tech supply or technical
supplies, which is another way of saying aircraft
parts and aircraft related supply items. The
priority between how much money goes to which of
these different sectors depends on a whole lot of
factors, primarily the world conditions at the
time. Right now, We're placing emphasis on
technical supply, sustainability of aircraft,
rapid turnaround in maintenance facilities, so
technical supplies or parts for aircraft have the
highest priority right now. And it fluctuates
through year in and year out, depending on what the
imperatives are at the time. And I would imagine
that it fluctuates from administration to
administration. Yes, it does. Very definitely.
Would you talk about that? I really haven't been
that close to it on active duty. And of course,
reservists don't get involved much in the
day-to-day management. But just from a more than
interested casual observer, it's evident that
right now, for example, under Ronald Reagan's
administration, and with the emphasis that the
DOD is getting and the money that the DOD is
getting, that we're going to do much better as far
as readiness is concerned. than we have under past
administrations. Carter's specifically was
disastrous as far as the readiness is concerned.
But you take the dollars you have and allocate them
as best you can and stretch them as far as they'll
go. But there's never a day since I've been
connected with the Air Force been enough dollars.
And I don't really expect there will be. And I'm not
sure it'd be a healthy thing if we did have all the
dollars we needed for ever thing we had because too
many other programs would be lacking. It's a
balance. Yeah, absolutely. In what way did the war
in Vietnam have an impact on your job as a reserve
supply officer?
I really didn't feel that much of an impact. The war
in Vietnam escalated very slowly. It was a very
long, drawn out, war, there was not a sudden
declaration of war, complete mobilization. So it
was such a gradual thing. And since my particular
activity was not called active duty, I really
didn't notice it as far as any impact it had on me as
reservist. Of course, obviously, we were all
intensely interested in what was happening. But
how it changed my way of doing business, it didn't
really at all. In other words, the reserve people
were slighted because the active duty people were
getting more of the supply? No, because at that
time, we weren't getting anything anyway. Oh, I
see. We really didn't start getting what I
consider an adequate share of the funding and
equipment until really after the Vietnamese War
was over. I think after the Vietnamese War was
over, That's when the reserve really began to come
into their own because the people in authority
realized at that time that a reservist could be
trained and ready to go to war and in the same state
of readiness for a fraction of what it would cost to
sustain a full-time active duty officer or airman
to do the same job. So it was strictly a matter of
dollars and cents. You can get more bang for the
buck, so to speak, from a reserve activity than you
can from an active duty activity, because they
don't fly as much. Now, they don't train as much per
month, but they train for longer periods of time.
In the unit program, the flying program, where we
have our aircraft, you might, on an active duty
outfit, you might have a young first lieutenant
that's been on active duty for a year and a half,
maybe two years. He just got out of flight school,
and he's out doing his thing. Back in the reserve
unit, you might have a captain or a major that's
been flying that same airplane for 12, 15 years.
The age and maturity and experience, we always do
extremely well in competition with active duty
outfits and shoot-offs and things like that where
they have gunnery competition. Reserves nearly
always come in high or win them just outright. And
so basically we don't do it as often, but we've done
it for such a much longer period of time that that
maturity and training really pays off for us.
Okay, I want to ask you about, do you think it was a
mistake that, and some critics have said that it
was a mistake that LBJ did not call up the reserves.
I'd like your opinion on that, but I want to check.
Now, in what time period are you speaking about?
Well, we're talking about 1965 and 66 when many
people said that during the Vietnamese War,
instead of increasing the draft, instead of
increasing the draft, what he should do is he
should use this pool of very qualified reservists
and send them to Vietnam. What do you feel about
that? I feel that he made the right decision
basically for this reason.
The reserves are your last resort. When you call
the reserves, that's your trump card. You've got
nothing left. Now, depending on the timing of the
situation, you may have to play that trump card. In
his situation, he didn't have to play that trump
card due to the gradual escalation and buildup and
so forth. So my personal opinion is that the
reserve should be exactly that, held in reserve
until your other alternatives have been
exhausted. Full declaration of war then? Not
necessarily. As I mentioned yesterday when we
were talking, in my opinion, any future conflict
where we really get down to it there's not going to
be enough time to mobilize, to train, to send the
tech school to man active duty outfits. I think the
likelihood for reserve units being activated in
the future are much, much higher than they've ever
been in the history of the reserve program.
There's no question that if things escalate,
whether it's a declared war, whether it's a police
action, what have you, that a lot of reserve units
are going to be activated. For that reason, we have
a lot of trouble. A lot of people know that. And for
that reason, we have, up until the recession came
along, have had a lot of trouble recruiting
people, especially in some particular type
outfits that are particularly vulnerable to
activation. For example, an airport squadron.
which is a unit that helps load and unload
airplanes at ports of embarkation, shipping
freight, and things like that. Over half of the Air
Force's capability for that type of activity is in
the reserve program. So if they surge, there's
only one place they can get trained people, and
that's by activating some reserve outfits.
Therefore, we've had a great deal of difficulty in
enticing enlisted people to become members of the
airport squadrons. because they know that they'd
be the first ones to go. Civil engineering
squadrons are the same way. They're the guys that
go out and build the dirt strips so that people can
land in the forward group. And so we've had a great
deal of difficulty in manning civil engineering
squads. Now, I mentioned the recession. When the
recession came along, the manning is in direct
proportion to economic conditions. Anytime
economic conditions are bad, you fill up the
reserve program because it's not a bad part-time
job that pays to the point where it's significant
now. By the same token, if the economic conditions
are good and everybody's vying for skills, then
we're in the labor market like everybody else. We
try to hire our share of them, and we're not always
successful. Right now, we're fat. That's not to
say we will be six months or a year from now.
I was wondering about as far as recruitment during
Vietnam. I really wasn't that close to it. And the
reserves, I would have thought that many people
would want to join the reserves so they could avoid
active duty or the draft. Well, I see what you mean.
Yeah, that's true. That's always true. And did you
have that in the reserve units? Long, long waiting
list to get in reserve units, especially the Air
Force reserve units now. I understand even under
those conditions that the Marine Corps reserves,
the Army reserves really didn't have that many
people wanting to get in a reserve program. But the
Air Force has always been blessed in that people
had rather, for some reason, had rather be in the
Air Force than in the Army or the Marines. That's
not all people. Some people prefer the Marines.
But the Air Force kind of, I guess, has a reputation
that we sleep in a warm bed every night. And you may
go get shot down and killed, but if you make it back,
you've got a warm bed and a hot meal waiting for you.
How did you deal with those long lines trying to get
into the reserves?
I just really wasn't that close to that particular
segment to comment on that. I presume that the
recruiting standards, like our admission
standards here at the university, were increased
rather significantly. Now, we use SAT scores here
kind of as a rule of thumb as our primary screening
tool.
The tool that, we use the same tool in the reserves
as to what did their SAT score look like. Those that
didn't take it as a percentage of people that
graduate from high school. At one time it was
somewhere down 60, 65, 70% that graduated from
high school. Now it's up to like 98% because we can
be more selective in the people we accept. So now in
your area here in Texas, and the Air Force National
Reserves, you have basically a 98% high school
graduation. The new recruits coming in. Oh, the
new ones, yeah. Right. Well, that's fantastic.
Across the board. If you analyze all reserves, it
wouldn't be anywhere near that high because of the
carry award. But of the new people coming in, it's
up close to 100% now. That's fantastic. I presume
that once the job market improves and that there's
more competition, then that percentage will
start to drop again. But right now, we use high
school diploma as a... I'm talking about enlisted
people now. We're talking about the high school
diploma being almost a necessity now. because
most of the jobs in the Air Force are getting to be
pretty technical, highly skilled type jobs. We
don't have bitch-diggers anymore. Yeah, you have
machine operators. You've got machines that do
that. I was wondering about when blacks first were
allowed into the reserve groups.
In the mid-1960s, did you have any racial
problems? None at all. I think probably the
military. is the shining example of what
integration is all about of all the other segments
of our society. The military has been integrated
for years and very successfully integrated.
Not only did it happen because it was directed to
happen, and in a military environment directions
are taken more seriously than in a civilian
environment a lot of times, but it happened
because it was the right thing to happen and
because the quality of minorities that were
getting in the service earned the respect and
support of everybody else. There was no problem at
all with blacks or Hispanics or anyone else in the
reserve program. And about what percentage of the
reserves, the Air Force reserves, are
minorities? Oh, I wouldn't have any idea, Terry.
How about in the basic Texas area of the Air Force?
There, once again, I wouldn't even make a guess. I
don't have any idea. I would think that probably,
I'll make an observation, and I have no basis for
making the observation. But I would think
that probably, in your enlisted ranks, that the
percentage of blacks in a reserve unit would be
higher than the percentage of blacks to the total
population.
For some reason, the black people that I've been
associated with have a great affinity for the
military. They do very well in the military. They
make at least average and probably better than
average progress in the military. In the officer
ranks, because now a college degree is mandatory,
I don't know how the percentages would compare.
We're getting more and more and more black
officers in the Air Force. But from a percentage
standpoint as to the total population or the
percentage of college graduates that go into the
military as compared to whites, I just don't know.
But I do know that there are a large number of them,
and they make fine officers. I've noticed the
number of black generals has just soared. where I
think the first black general that we had was in the
1960s. Now we have about 30 of them. Incidentally,
I thought of a guy that you need to think about
someday if he's ever on the campus or if you can get
him, a former student who's a major general. His
name is Major General Jim Taylor, T-A-Y-L-O-R.
He's a reserve major general. As far as I know, he's
the highest ranking reserve general that we've
ever had, the former student that we've ever had.
Two-star is the highest rank you can hold in the Air
Force Reserve. And he is a two-star. And where is he
located? He's located in Sacramento,
California. He's in a real estate business out
there. And he also has an interest in a winery. Not
Taylor White. No, sorry about that. I'd just go out
and float for a couple of weeks with him. He'd love
to have you, probably. Okay, so I'm trying to
expand this. But he's in this part of the country
from time to time. If you tell him what you're up to,
he may be willing to drop by and see you sometime.
Also, there are two other brigadiers in the
Houston area that would be tickled to death to come
up to talk with you. One is Vice President of Mosier
Steel Company named General Vic Thompson. Victor
Thompson, T-H-O-M-P-S-O-N. And he's in Houston?
In Houston. And he's a reserve general? He's a
retired reserve brigadier general. He just
retired last year. USAF? USAF. Right. All these
are Air Force generals. I've never heard of him,
and he's an Aggie? Yes. Yes. My goodness. He's on
the campus frequently. Well, he's in the former
student's book. Yes. I'll write him a letter
today. The other is Brigadier General John Roper,
R-O-P-E-R.
He's in Houston also in the Air Force Reserve. He's
still an active Air Force Reserve general. Great.
I sure am glad you gave me these names. And he would
be, I feel sure, willing to drive up to spend some
time with you. Well, I have funds that To go to
Houston. To go to Houston. To go any place in Texas.
Good, good. Not to go to California, but to go to any
place in Texas. And I had to go down and talk to
another one. But those guys are real active in the
Reserve Program, in the Air Force Association, in
the Reserve Officers Association, and in our own
Farmer Students Association. Fantastic.
Especially General Thompson. He's responsible
for... scholarship funds in a significant amount
given in the name of the Mosier Steel Company that
he works for. But he's in charge of several plants
with Mosier Steel. He's the vice president in
charge of operations, as I believe this is titled,
and a super guy. Fantastic. I'll write a letter.
He's on the campus six or eight, ten times a year.
Well, that would be no problem as far as Houston is
concerned. Now let's shift the conversation to
women. Women, of course, have flooded into the
armed forces in the last 10 years in the active
branch. And it looks like I read a statement by the
Department of Defense in which they're going to
continue and even increase the percentage of
women in the armed forces. What impact has that had
on the reserves? We've had a number of women that
have come into the reserve program in
traditionally male
specialties, primarily in the maintenance area.
Normally you'd think of an aircraft maintenance
type as being a male, but we have a number of them
that are training. They're proficient. They do an
extremely good job.
When I say a number, I don't think that the
percentage is just real high. But as far as I know,
they're being recruited and trained and used in
just about every career field I can think of in the
Air Force. What about attitudes?
I would say that initially, there's some
resistance on the part of the male members of the
reserve program But that lasts a very short period
of time, 30, 60, 90 days. Then they're doing a job,
and they're respected for the job they're doing.
And
under field conditions, as far as I know, in any
exercise we've had, there's never been any
problem with, you know, rapes or anything like
that. I would say that there'd be no more problem in
the military in a field exercise than there would
be in any other exercise.